Mac companion app blog post (#14517)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2020-09-18-mac-companion.markdown

---

TODO: ADD VIDEO

Wow what a birthday week it has been! We've had a [new supervisor release](/blog/2020/09/16/supervisor-joins-the-party), one of the largest and most user-driven core [releases](/blog/2020/09/17/release-115) thanks to the month of What The Heck?! and even seen the integration of [RFID tags](/blog/2020/09/15/home-assistant-tags) right into the heart of Home Assistant. To finish the week off we've got one last present for all our Mac users, we're announcing the beta release of Home Assistant Companion for macOS. Like a lot of the recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specific to the Mac. If you're a Windows user, don't worry, you can integrate your PC with the great [IOT Link](https://iotlink.gitlab.io/index.html) tool.

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/render.png' alt='Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro'></a>
Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro.
</p>

> ## Automate when you start using your webcam or microphone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Automate your Mac
```

Author: What about

```suggestion
## Trigger automations with your Mac
```

> Let's start by looking at some of the coolest Mac-specific features of the app, sensors for all your webcams and microphones. Each camera and microphone has its own `binary_sensor` showing whether it is active or not. These can enable some really useful automations, especially for those home working at the moment. You could automatically turn off the radio when answering a call or close the blinds behind you to improve your video quality. To see just how useful this can be in the real world, check out this video of how our very own Frenck is using these sensors in his streaming set up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several new `binary_sensor` available from your Mac: whether it's active, whether a particular microphone is in use, and whether a particular webcam is in use.

The "active" sensor reports whether the Mac is under active use; in other words, not sleeping, not showing a screensaver, not locked, and not idle. You can configure the Idle time threshold from its default 5 minutes in Preferences.

Each camera and microphone has its own `binary_sensor` showing whether it is active or not. These can enable some really useful automations, especially for those home working at the moment. You could automatically turn off the radio when answering a call or close the blinds behind you to improve your video quality. To see just how useful this can be in the real world, check out this video of how our very own Frenck is using these sensors in his streaming set up.
```

TODO: ADD VIDEO EMBED HERE

One huge advantage of running on a Mac compared to a mobile device is the much larger battery. This means we are not constrained by battery saving measures and can address one of the most common gripes with the iOS app, update intervals. On a Mac entity updates are triggered immediately when something changes. You will see this reported by the `sensor.DEVICE_NAME_last_update_trigger` reporting `Signaled`.

## Notifications

Just like the iOS app, you can send notifications to your Mac with services like `notify.mobile_app_DEVICE_NAME`. One small difference is that [critical notifications](https://companion.home-assistant.io/docs/notifications/critical-notifications) are not yet available for the Mac app. However, all our other notifications features like actionable notifications work on the Mac app. To see what is possible, take a look at [the docs](https://companion.home-assistant.io/).

## Interface

> Your Mac isn't a mobile so you shouldn't be forced to use an interface designed for a mobile. In the Mac app the App Configuration page has been removed from Home Assistant's sidebar and instead the configuration options and preferences are in the Home Assistant menu on the menu bar right where you'd expect to find them for any other app and all the standard shortcuts work too (just hit `cmd + ,` for preferences). Here you will also find an option to manually send an update to Home Assistant and you can even open extra Home Assistant windows! Finally, on the menu bar you can also find a new Actions menu where you can see all your [actions](https://companion.home-assistant.io/docs/core/actions) and fire them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Mac App is definitely a _Mac_ app. With support for multiple windows, you'll find the usual shortcuts (like Preferences under `⌘,` instead of living in the sidebar) as well as the ability to create multiple Lovelace windows under File > New. 

In the menu bar you will also find an option to manually send an update to Home Assistant and a new Actions menu where you can see all your [actions](https://companion.home-assistant.io/docs/core/actions) and fire them.
```

or something like this

Author: Think I've got something close to this now

---

> title: "Home Assistant Companion for Mac"

Reviewer 2: Mac or macOS?

description: "Integrate your Mac into Home Assistant."

> date: 2020-09-18 00:00:00

Reviewer 2: This will hide it from the preview, that's annoying. Let's temporarily make it visible.
```suggestion
date: 2020-09-16 02:00:00
```

date_formatted: "September 18, 2020"
comments: true
author: Tom Brien
author_twitter: tbrien88
categories: Announcements

> og_image: /images/blog/2020-09-15-home-assistant-tags/social.png

Reviewer 2: Social image needs updating.

Author: Resolving this one as I have now changed the meta to point to the right file... I will see what it looks like with a windowed view but might keep that image full screened as the OG image can be pretty small in places

---

TODO: ADD VIDEO

TODO: CHECK IF CHANGING DISCORD/REPO NAMES

> Wow what a birthday week it has been! We've had a [new supervisor release](/blog/2020/09/16/supervisor-joins-the-part), one of the largest and most user-driven core [releases](/blog/2020/09/17/release-115) thanks to the month of What The Heck?! and even seen the the integration of [RFID tags](/blog/2020/09/15/home-assistant-tags) right into the heart of Home Assistant. To finish the week off we've got one last present for all our Mac users, we're announcing the beta release of Home Assistant Companion for Mac. Like a lot of the recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specific to the Mac.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wow what a birthday week it has been! We've had a [new supervisor release](/blog/2020/09/16/supervisor-joins-the-part), one of the largest and most user-driven core [releases](/blog/2020/09/17/release-115) thanks to the month of What The Heck?! and even seen the integration of [RFID tags](/blog/2020/09/15/home-assistant-tags) right into the heart of Home Assistant. To finish the week off we've got one last present for all our Mac users, we're announcing the beta release of Home Assistant Companion for Mac. Like a lot of the recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specific to the Mac.
```

<p class='img'>

> <img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/render.png' alt='Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro'></a>

Reviewer 2: I think it would make more sense to render a windowed version because it colors the titlebar.

Author: Will re do this with 0.115 tomorrow/Friday AM (UK)

Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro.
</p>

> ## Getting the beta

Reviewer 2: Let's move this section last

> You can get the beta right now from the [home-assistant/ios repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/iOS) just download the [`home-assistant-mac.zip` file from the latest release](https://companion.home-assistant.io/app/mac/latest), unzip and drag it over to your Applications folder. Done!

Reviewer 2: Removed a link because otherwise there are too many links. 

```suggestion
You can get the beta right now from the home-assistant/ios repository: download the `home-assistant-mac.zip` file from the [latest release](https://companion.home-assistant.io/app/mac/latest), unzip and drag it over to your Applications folder. Done!
```

> ## Features

Reviewer 2: Let's make the header more specific. It needs to attract for people glancing over.

Maye?

```suggestion
## Automate when you start using your webcam or microphone
```

### Interface

Your Mac isn't a mobile so you shouldn't be forced to use an interface designed for a mobile. In the Mac app the App Configuration page has been removed from Home Assistant's sidebar and instead the configuration options and preferences are in the Home Assistant menu on the menu bar right where you'd expect to find them for any other app and all the standard shortcuts work too (just hit `cmd + ,` for preferences). Here you will also find an option to manually send an update to Home Assistant and you can even open extra Home Assistant windows! Finally, on the menu bar you can also find a new Actions menu where you can see all your [actions](https://companion.home-assistant.io/docs/core/actions) and fire them.

### Big Sur Features

Home Assistant Companion for Mac already supports widgets in Big Sur. Right now we have an Actions Widget where you can have up to eight actions. You can also create multiple widgets with different sets of actions. If you have an idea for other widgets you'd like to see, pop over to [the community forums and let us know](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/what-kind-of-ios-14-widgets-would-you-like-to-see/211112/14).

<p class='img'>

> <img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/actions-widget.png' alt='Screenshot of a large Home Assistant Actions widget in Big Sur'></a>

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to show this screenshot in its context? As in, is this in the sidebar? Can we maybe include a bit more screen.

Author: More like this? 
<img width="474" alt="Screenshot 2020-09-16 at 21 46 59_crop" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12411302/93394075-84b70f00-f86b-11ea-8735-699269da89e2.png">

Reviewer 2: Yes, but without Home Assistant window next behind it maybe. Wonder if you can show some other controls too, so you see what the control pane looks like ?

Author: Sure, will add a couple of other widgets (there aren't so many available yet)

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12411302/93455515-5de0f300-f8d4-11ea-9f75-11e137a1f693.png)

Pretty much all the other widgets available are either from my pictures or calendar

Screenshot of a large Home Assistant Actions widget in Big Sur.
</p>

### Documentation and Support

> We are updating the [Companion App docs](https://companion.home-assistant.io) with details for the Mac app. You can also pop over to the [Discord channel](https://discord.com/login?redirect_to=%2Fchannels%2F330944238910963714%2F551871772484698112). If you find a bug or have an idea for a feature please open an issue over on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/iOS/issues/new/choose).

Reviewer 2: Invites can expire, should we write something like

>Join us on #ios on [Discord](https://www.home-assistant.io/join-chat/)

Author: I don't think that is an invite link, I believe that's the actual channel address. It matches up with the URL seen in the browser version. I took it from the companion docs where it has been for ageeeeees

---

> title: "Home Assistant Companion for macOS"

Reviewer 3: based on an idea from @ludeeus:

"One more thing..."

Author: As in change the title to "One more thing..."? I like it

Reviewer 4: Yeah, that as the title was the idea

Author: Updated and also the description to now give context but also be in the "One more thing..." style

Reviewer 4: Nice :tada:  :smile:

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/render.png' alt='Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro'></a>
Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro.
</p>

## Trigger automations with your Mac

Home Assistant Companion for macOS adds several new `binary_sensor`s for your Mac showing whether it is active and whether a particular microphone or webcam is in use.

> The "active" sensor reports whether the Mac is being actively used. In other words that it is not sleeping, not showing a screensaver, not locked and not just sat idle. You can configure the idle threshold in the Sensors section of Preferences to between 20 seconds and one hour.

Reviewer: for the active sensor it is a minimum 1 minute, and increments of minutes

---
title: "One more thing…"
description: "Introducing Home Assistant Companion for macOS."
date: 2020-09-18 08:00:00
date_formatted: "September 18, 2020"
comments: true
author: Tom Brien
author_twitter: tbrien88
categories: Announcements
og_image: /images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/social.png
---

TODO: ADD VIDEO

> Wow what a birthday week it has been! We've had a [new supervisor release](/blog/2020/09/16/supervisor-joins-the-party), one of the largest and most user-driven core [releases](/blog/2020/09/17/release-115) thanks to the month of What The Heck?! and even seen the integration of [RFID tags](/blog/2020/09/15/home-assistant-tags) right into the heart of Home Assistant but we're not done yet! We have "One more thing…"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Wow, what a birthday week it has been! We've had a [new supervisor release](/blog/2020/09/16/supervisor-joins-the-party), one of the largest and most user-driven core [releases](/blog/2020/09/17/release-115), thanks to the [month of What The Heck?!](/blog/2020/08/18/the-month-of-what-the-heck/). We even got [RFID tags](/blog/2020/09/15/home-assistant-tags) right into the heart of Home Assistant, but we're not done yet! We have "One more thing…"
```

## Introducing Home Assistant Companion for macOS

> Like a lot of the recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specific to the Mac. If you're a Windows user, don't worry, you can integrate your PC with the great [IOT Link](https://iotlink.gitlab.io/index.html) tool.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Like many recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specifically for the Mac. If you're a Windows user, don't worry, you can integrate your PC with the great [IOT Link](https://iotlink.gitlab.io/index.html) tool.
```

> Like many recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specifically for the Mac. If you're a Windows user, don't worry, you can integrate your PC with the great [IOT Link](https://iotlink.gitlab.io/index.html) tool.

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's put the Windows reference on a new line? 
```suggestion
Like many recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specifically for the Mac.

_If you're a Windows user, don't worry, you can integrate your PC with the great [IOT Link](https://iotlink.gitlab.io/index.html) tool._
```

Author: Makes sense :)

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/render.png' alt='Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro'></a>
Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro.
</p>

## Trigger automations with your Mac

> Home Assistant Companion for macOS adds several new binary sensors for your Mac showing whether it is active and whether a particular microphone or webcam is in use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Home Assistant Companion for macOS adds several new binary sensors for your Mac, showing whether it is active and whether a particular microphone or webcam is in use.
```

> The "active" sensor reports whether the Mac is being actively used. In other words that it is not sleeping, not showing a screensaver, not locked and not just sat idle. You can configure the "Time Until Idle" in one-minute steps from a minimum of 1 minute, you'll find this option in the Sensors section of Preferences.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The "active" sensor reports whether the Mac is actively used. In other words that it is not sleeping, not showing a screensaver, not locked and not just sat idle. You can configure the "Time Until Idle" in one-minute steps from a minimum of 1 minute. You'll find this option in the Sensors section of Preferences.
```

Each camera and microphone has its own `binary_sensor` showing whether it is active or not. These can enable some really useful automations, especially for those home working at the moment. You could automatically turn off the radio when answering a call or close the blinds behind you to improve your video quality. To see just how useful this can be in the real world, check out this video of how our very own Frenck is using these sensors in his streaming set up.

TODO: ADD VIDEO EMBED HERE

> One huge advantage of running on a Mac compared to a mobile device is the much larger battery. This means we are not constrained by battery saving measures and can address one of the most common gripes with the iOS app, update intervals. On a Mac entity updates are triggered immediately when something changes. You will see this reported by the `sensor.DEVICE_NAME_last_update_trigger` reporting `Signaled`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One huge advantage of running on a Mac compared to a mobile device is the much larger battery. This means we are not constrained by battery-saving measures and can address one of the most common gripes with the iOS app, update intervals. On a Mac, entity updates are immediately triggered when something changes. You will see this reported by the `sensor.DEVICE_NAME_last_update_trigger` reporting `Signaled`.
```

## Notifications

Just like the iOS app, you can send notifications to your Mac with services like `notify.mobile_app_DEVICE_NAME`. One small difference is that [critical notifications](https://companion.home-assistant.io/docs/notifications/critical-notifications) are not yet available for the Mac app. However, all our other notifications features like actionable notifications work on the Mac app. To see what is possible, take a look at [the docs](https://companion.home-assistant.io/).

## Interface

> The Mac app is definitely a _Mac_ app. The App Configuration page has been removed from Home Assistant's sidebar and instead the configuration options and preferences are on the menu bar right where you'd expect to find them for any other app and all the standard shortcuts work too (like `⌘,` for Preferences). You can even open multiple Lovelace windows via File>New.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Mac app is definitely a _Mac_ app. The App Configuration page has been removed from Home Assistant's sidebar. Instead, the configuration options and preferences are on the menu bar right where you'd expect to find them for any other app and all the standard shortcuts work too (like `⌘,` for Preferences). You can even open multiple Lovelace windows via File > New.
```

> In the menu bar you will also find an option to manually send an update to Home Assistant and a new Actions menu where you can see all your [actions](https://companion.home-assistant.io/docs/core/actions) and fire them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the menu bar, you will also find an option to manually send an update to Home Assistant and a new Actions menu where you can see all your [actions](https://companion.home-assistant.io/docs/core/actions) and fire them.
```

## Big Sur Features

> Home Assistant Companion for macOS already supports widgets in Big Sur. Right now we have an Actions Widget where you can have up to eight actions. You can also create multiple widgets with different sets of actions. If you have an idea for other widgets you'd like to see, pop over to [the community forums and let us know](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/what-kind-of-ios-14-widgets-would-you-like-to-see/211112/14).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Home Assistant Companion for macOS already supports widgets in Big Sur. Right now, we have an Actions Widget where you can have up to eight actions. You can also create multiple widgets with different sets of actions. If you have an idea for other widgets, you'd like to see, pop over to [the community forums and let us know](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/what-kind-of-ios-14-widgets-would-you-like-to-see/211112/14).
```

Author: Agree on first coma, not sure on the second the "you'd like to see" isn't subordinate and it feels weird with the break there (IMO)

Reviewer 3: 🤷‍♂️ Fine either way. The last one is more personal pref I guess.

Author: Done. Agree, really appreciate the level of attention readability to a global audience has to come first! 🙂

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/actions-widget.png' alt='Screenshot of a large Home Assistant Actions widget in Big Sur'></a>
Screenshot of a large Home Assistant Actions widget in Big Sur.
</p>

## Documentation and Support

> We are updating the [Companion App docs](https://companion.home-assistant.io) with details for the Mac app. You can also pop over to the [Discord channel](https://discord.com/login?redirect_to=%2Fchannels%2F330944238910963714%2F551871772484698112). If you find a bug or have an idea for a feature please open an issue over on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/iOS/issues/new/choose).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We are updating the [Companion App docs](https://companion.home-assistant.io) with details for the Mac app. You can also pop over to the [Discord channel](https://discord.com/login?redirect_to=%2Fchannels%2F330944238910963714%2F551871772484698112). If you find a bug or have an idea for a feature, please open up an issue on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/home-assistant/iOS/issues/new/choose).
```

## Getting the beta

> You can get the beta right now from the home-assistant/ios repository: download the `home-assistant-mac.zip` file from the [latest release](https://companion.home-assistant.io/app/mac/latest), unzip and drag it over to your Applications folder. Done!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can get the beta right now from the `home-assistant/ios` repository: download the `home-assistant-mac.zip` file from the [latest release](https://companion.home-assistant.io/app/mac/latest), unzip and drag it over to your Applications folder. Done!
```

---
title: "One more thing…"
description: "Introducing Home Assistant Companion for macOS."
date: 2020-09-18 08:00:00
date_formatted: "September 18, 2020"
comments: true
author: Tom Brien
author_twitter: tbrien88
categories: Announcements
og_image: /images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/social.png
---

TODO: ADD VIDEO

Wow, what a birthday week it has been! We've had a [new supervisor release](/blog/2020/09/16/supervisor-joins-the-party), one of the largest and most user-driven core [releases](/blog/2020/09/17/release-115), thanks to the [month of What The Heck?!](/blog/2020/08/18/the-month-of-what-the-heck/). We even got [RFID tags](/blog/2020/09/15/home-assistant-tags) right into the heart of Home Assistant, but we're not done yet! We have "One more thing…"

## Introducing Home Assistant Companion for macOS

> Like many recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specifically for the Mac.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Home Assistant Companion is a new application for Mac to control your Home Assistant instance, exposing your Mac sensors to Home Assistant and to receive notifications.

Like many recent updates to the iOS app, we have [@zacwest](https://github.com/zacwest) to thank for this. Zac has ported the iOS app over to Mac and added some great new features specifically for the Mac.
```

_If you're a Windows user, don't worry, you can integrate your PC with the great [IOT Link](https://iotlink.gitlab.io/index.html) tool._

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/render.png' alt='Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro'></a>

> Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running full screen on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Home Assistant Companion running on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro
```

---
title: "One more thing…"
description: "Introducing Home Assistant Companion for macOS."
date: 2020-09-18 08:00:00
date_formatted: "September 18, 2020"
comments: true
author: Tom Brien
author_twitter: tbrien88
categories: Announcements
og_image: /images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/social.png
---

> TODO: ADD VIDEO
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

_If you're a Windows user, don't worry, you can integrate your PC with the great [IOT Link](https://iotlink.gitlab.io/index.html) tool._

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/render.png' alt='Rendered image of the Home Assistant Lovelace interface running windowed on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro'></a>
Home Assistant Companion running on a 16-inch Mac Book Pro
</p>

## Trigger automations with your Mac

Home Assistant Companion for macOS adds several new binary sensors for your Mac, showing whether it is active and whether a particular microphone or webcam is in use.

Each camera and microphone has its own `binary_sensor` showing whether it is active or not. These can enable some really useful automations, especially for those home working at the moment. You could automatically turn off the radio when answering a call or close the blinds behind you to improve your video quality. To see just how useful this can be in the real world, check out this video of how our very own Frenck is using these sensors in his streaming set up.

> TODO: ADD VIDEO EMBED HERE

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="videoWrapper">
  <iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/ssRVjqS40-0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
```

One huge advantage of running on a Mac compared to a mobile device is the much larger battery. This means we are not constrained by battery-saving measures and can address one of the most common gripes with the iOS app, update intervals. On a Mac, entity updates are immediately triggered when something changes. You will see this reported by the `sensor.DEVICE_NAME_last_update_trigger` reporting `Signaled`.

## Home Assistant Widgets (Big Sur only)

Home Assistant Companion for macOS already supports widgets in Big Sur. Right now, we have an Actions Widget where you can have up to eight actions. You can also create multiple widgets with different sets of actions. If you have an idea for other widgets you'd like to see, pop over to [the community forums and let us know](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/what-kind-of-ios-14-widgets-would-you-like-to-see/211112/14).

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/actions-widget.png' alt='Screenshot of a large Home Assistant Actions widget in Big Sur'></a>

> Screenshot of a large Home Assistant Actions widget in Big Sur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The large Home Assistant Actions widget in Big Sur.
```

</p>

## Interface

The Mac app is definitely a _Mac_ app. The App Configuration page has been removed from Home Assistant's sidebar. Instead, the configuration options and preferences are on the menu bar right where you'd expect to find them for any other app and all the standard shortcuts work too (like `⌘,` for Preferences). You can even open multiple Lovelace windows via File > New.

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-09-18-mac-companion/multi_window.png' alt='Screenshot of two Lovelace windows open side-by-side'></a>

> Multiple Lovelace windows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can have multiple Home Assistant Companion windows open.
```
